README.md, before:

# TTS Dockerized Compliance Trestle

This repository contains the source code for the `ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle` Docker image and OSCAL models to be used by that image.

## Image Use:

### Pull down the trestle image and initialize a compliance trestle project

Prerequisite: `$(pwd)/compliance` directory exists and is where you want to store all compliance artifacts

```
docker pull ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle
docker run -it --rm -v $(pwd)/compliance:/app/docs ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle bash
```

All other usage commands assume you are operating within the docker container.

### Create Control Statement Markdown Files

`generate-ssp-markdown PROFILE_NAME`

### Import profile into working space:

If you are using a `PROFILE_NAME` that does not ship with this docker container then you must first manually import it using:

`trestle import -f PROFILE_URL -o PROFILE_NAME`

Once that is done you can go back to the `generate-ssp-markdown` step

### Templates:

The following templates are included in the Docker image:

#### profiles/lato

A profile representing the set of controls covered by a [GSA LATO](https://www.gsa.gov/system/files/Lightweight-Security-Authorization-Process-%28LATO%29%20%5BCIO-IT-Security-14-68-Rev-7%5D%2009-17-2021docx%20%281%29.pdf) SSPP.

#### catalogs/nist800-53r5

A copy of the full NIST 800-53 revision 5 catalog.

#### catalogs/lato

A resolved catalog of just the NIST 800-53r5 controls that are used by the LATO profile.

## Development

### Updating templates:

Run the trestle image locally through Docker Compose:

`docker compose run cli bash`

Utilize [compliance-trestle](https://oscal-compass.github.io/compliance-trestle/) commands within the `/app/templates` directory to make any changes that are required.

The `/app/docs` directory can be used as a scratch area for any temporary trestle tests.

### Updating the Docker image:

1. Make required changes to the Dockerfile
1. Build the image: `docker build -t ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle .`
1. Tag with a datestamp: `docker tag ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle:YYYYMMDD`
1. Push the new tag to Docker Hub: `docker push ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle:YYYYMMDD`

Commit message:

Add scripts for assembling ssp json, splitting and merging

README.md, after:

# TTS Dockerized Compliance Trestle

This repository contains the source code for the `ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle` Docker image and OSCAL models to be used by that image.

## Image Use:

### General workflow:

1. [Create the files for a given SSPP](#create-control-statement-markdown-files)
1. Edit control statements within markdown files
1. [Assemble markdown contents into a provisional OSCAL SSP](#assemble-ssp-json-from-markdown)
1. Edit other sections of the SSPP within the smaller json files
1. [Assemble everything into a final OSCAL SSP (TODO: within a CI workflow)](#final-ssp-assembly)

### Pull down the trestle image and initialize a compliance trestle project

Prerequisite: `$(pwd)/compliance` directory exists and is where you want to store all compliance artifacts

```
docker pull ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle
docker run -it --rm -v $(pwd)/compliance:/app/docs ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle bash
```

All other usage commands assume you are operating within the docker container.

### Create Control Statement Markdown Files

`generate-ssp-markdown PROFILE_NAME`

If you are using a profile that isn't [shipped with the image](#templates) you must [import it first](#import-profile-into-working-space)

### Assemble SSP JSON from Markdown

`assemble-ssp-json SYSTEM_NAME`

This step will create `system-security-plans/SYSTEM_NAME/system-security-plan.json` as well as smaller JSON files within `system-security-plans/SYSTEM_NAME/system-security-plan/` for editing.

### Final SSP Assembly

`trestle assemble -n SYSTEM_NAME system-security-plan`

### Import profile into working space:

If you are using a `PROFILE_NAME` that does not ship with this docker container then you must first manually import it using:

`trestle import -f PROFILE_URL -o PROFILE_NAME`

Once that is done you can go back to the `generate-ssp-markdown` step

### Split SSP into manageable files

This step is automatically handled by the `assemble-ssp-json` script as long as that script is run from the trestle root.

`split-ssp system-security-plans/SYSTEM_NAME/system-security-plan.json`

### Templates:

The following templates are included in the Docker image:

#### profiles/lato

A profile representing the set of controls covered by a [GSA LATO](https://www.gsa.gov/system/files/Lightweight-Security-Authorization-Process-%28LATO%29%20%5BCIO-IT-Security-14-68-Rev-7%5D%2009-17-2021docx%20%281%29.pdf) SSPP.

#### catalogs/nist800-53r5

A copy of the full NIST 800-53 revision 5 catalog.

#### catalogs/lato

A resolved catalog of just the NIST 800-53r5 controls that are used by the LATO profile.

## Development

### Updating templates:

Run the trestle image locally through Docker Compose:

`docker compose run cli bash`

Utilize [compliance-trestle](https://oscal-compass.github.io/compliance-trestle/) commands within the `/app/templates` directory to make any changes that are required.

The `/app/docs` directory can be used as a scratch area for any temporary trestle tests.

### Updating the Docker image:

1. Make required changes to the Dockerfile
1. Build the image: `docker build -t ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle .`
1. Tag with a datestamp: `docker tag ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle:YYYYMMDD`
1. Push the new tag to Docker Hub: `docker push ghcr.io/gsa-tts/trestle:YYYYMMDD`
